FantasyQuantLab NFL Lineup Optimizer
========================================================
author: Eric Bruce
date: 2015-12-22

2. Why FantasyQuantLab (FQL)?
========================================================

Daily Fantasy Football has grown immensely over the last few years. The objective is to select an NFL lineup that will score the most points under salary and position contraints. The two largest sites are DraftKings and Fanduel. Each features two basic contests; Cash contest with top 50% doubling their entry fee and a Tournament with only the top 20% winning a multiple of their entry fee up to $1 million USD. 

It has proven to be a game of skill. A small percentage of players win the majority of money. Those winning players have an optimal lineup generated by the best algorithmic model. This Data App is a Proof-of-Concept to demontrate the power of FQL.

- FQL can create your optimal lineup so you can win!
- FQL is feature-rich, intuitive and easy to use!

3. FQL Inputs and User Interface (UI)
========================================================

FQL sources data from DraftKings and Fanduel. Data contains NFL Player projections, weekly salaries and historical contest metrics. This data is cleaned and transformed into tidy data contained in R datasets.

FQL offers an intuitive and easy to use UI (Code found in ui.R).

- FQL allows UI input choice of DFS Site (Radio Buttons). **Clicking Submit generates reactive output displayed as a result of server calculations. (Code found in server.R)**
- FQL allows UI input choice of Target Points (Slider). Target Points can change throughout the season due to more experienced players participating. **Clicking Submit generates reactive output displayed as a result of server calculations. (Code found in server.R)**
- FQL offers input choice of Contest, NFL Slate and Optimization Model. Proof of Concept demonstration only. No reactive output displayed as a result of server calculations.

4. FQL Output - Embedded R Code
========================================================

FQL generates reactive ouput that includes an optimal lineup, summary lineup metrics, contest targets and a plot. The FanDuel Optimal Lineup for Dec 13-14 slate is generated with **embedded R code** and shown below. 


```
    Position             Name Salary FPPG
26        QB   Blaine Gabbert   6400 18.9
30        RB  Devonta Freeman   8700 20.3
85        RB     Ryan Mathews   4700 10.4
148       WR      Julio Jones   8800 18.7
152       WR Brandon Marshall   8200 17.0
157       WR  Martavis Bryant   7400 17.3
324       TE    Antonio Gates   5700 12.2
408        K    Chris Boswell   4700 10.5
432      DST   Denver Broncos   5400 12.8
```

The optimal lineup has a projected score of 138 at a salary of 60000.


5. FQL - Shiny and Github Links
========================================================

Test drive FQL and review the source code.

- FQL Shiny App [https://ebrucecfa.shinyapps.io/DevDataProd_ProjectAssessment]
- FQL Github [https://github.com/ericandbeethoven/DevDataProd_PeerAssessment]

